= Enterprise menu

Simple gem that extracts logic needed for building effective and maintainable menus for complex enterprise scenarios.
Use it if you have myriad of options and pervasive business (il)logic that depends on user role.

Live example can be checked out at http://emenu.12ip.net if my home based server is not down again. I suggest to open demo it in a new tab, otherwise prepare to click 'Back' button quite a few times.

It builds menu presentation from configuration and persists state via hidden field. Main goal is to hide as much as possible of the HTML/jQuery ugliness from your tender eyes. Evenly important for me, is to make you balls-of-brass-kind-of-guy when customer is asking for yet another exception/addition in menu layout.

  @menu = MenuConfig.new
  @menu.item :transportation do
    item :cars
    item :trains do
      item :fast_trains
      item :slow_trains
    end
    item :planes do
      item :boeing do
        item :boeing747 do
          item :older_ready_to_crash
          item :brand_new
        end
        item :boeing474
      end
      item :airbus
    end
  end
  @menu.item :orders do
    item :bread
    item :butter
    item :chunky_bacon
  end

As you can see, multiple menu levels are enabled and it's pretty easy to change menus. You can have separate sets of menu for different roles (this is usually enough). You can exclude some items based on authorisation rules since this is pure Ruby.

  item :fast_trains if current_user.admin?

I need to put hook for enabling more complex type of authorisation, and also I need to enable defining quick link menu that depends on selected menu item.

WARNING : This is release early as it gets since it's almost not usable right now. I hope I'll deliver on second part to release often and make this gem worthwhile your time.

= Usage
Put in your Gemfile

  gem 'emenu'

Then type in your console:

  bundle && rails g emenu:install 

In the view you need to use: (Not yet embedded in menu itself... Sorry)

  .haml
  #content
   #left
     =form_tag('/', :id => :menu_form) do
       =hidden_field_tag :menu_state, @menu_state.to_json
       =@menu.to_html

  .html.erb
  <div id="content">
    <div id="left">
      <%= form_tag('/', :id => :menu_form) do %>
        <%= hidden_field_tag :menu_state, @menu_state.to_json %>
        <%= @menu.to_html %>
      <% end %>
    </div>
  </div>

This is needed in controller: (Also not hidden yet... Sorry)

    @menu_state = {}
    unless params[:menu_state].nil?
      @menu_state = ActiveSupport::JSON.decode(params[:menu_state])
      unless @menu_state.nil?
        @menu_state.each do |key, value|
          if key != "clicked_menu_key" && value == "opened"
            @menu.open(key.to_sym)  
          end
        end
        @menu.selected = @menu_state["clicked_menu_key"].to_sym
      end
    end

This is needed in your layout file

  .haml
   = stylesheet_link_tag 'reset.css', 'emenu.css'
   = javascript_include_tag 'jquery-1.4.2.min.js', 'emenu.js'

  .html.erb
  <%= stylesheet_link_tag 'reset.css', 'emenu.css'%>
  <%= javascript_include_tag 'jquery-1.4.2.min.js', 'emenu.js' %>

Be aware that I've monkey patched String class with 'indent' method for my testing purposes. I am not proud of that but there it is.

Theme used is small part of http://themeforest.net/item/smooth-admin/101529. It's just for demonstration and if you plan to use it in your projects you'll have to pay for it. Since you can already steel it from original theme page I don't think I am doing anything wrong including it as a demo. On the other hand the author has not yet given me permission to do so. All in all it might get a bit uglier if I have to make my own theme...


== TODO
* Make clicking on a certain link do something (now it's only calling default controller that is persisting menu state) :(
* Add quick links support that change according to main menu selection
* Put authorisation hook that will enable complex authorisation rules for all menu items in one method

== Contributing to emenu
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Kresimir Bojcic. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

